Having a baby can trigger a lot of powerful emotions,
from excitement and joy
to fear and anxiety.
But it can also result in something
you might not expect
depression.
In fact, it’s common for most
new moms to experience what’s known as
“baby blues” after childbirth,
usually beginning one to four days after delivery
and subsiding within two weeks without treatment.
Having support and asking for help
from friends, family and your partner
goes a long way to help during this time.
Postpartum depression is a far more serious condition,
affecting 1 in 7 new parents.
“Baby blues” and postpartum depression
have similar symptoms.
However, symptoms of “baby blues”
last about 10 days and are less intense.
While postpartum depression,
the symptoms can last weeks or months,
and are more intense.
Which could interfere with your
ability to care for your baby
and handle other daily tasks.
Symptoms of postpartum depression may include:
Depressed mood or mood swings
Excessive crying
Difficulty bonding with your baby
Inability to sleep or sleeping too much
Difficulty thinking or focusing
Severe anxiety and panic attacks
Thoughts of harming yourself or your baby
It’s OK to feel overwhelmed.
Having a baby isn’t easy.
If you have depression, you don’t have to suffer alone.
Find someone to talk to
a therapist,
a support group for new parents,
or even a friend who will
listen to you and help you.
Your healthcare provider can help
find a treatment that works for you.